[Music]
eight post-war adjustment
in the aftermath of the war to not
indistinct realizations were experienced
within the federal intelligence
community the loss of the Office of
Strategic Services and the need for some
type of coordinating and or leadership
mechanism within the post-war
intelligence structure viewing OSS as a
wartime necessity President Truman
anticipating criticism for the
continuation of the agency when World
Peace had been restored hastily
abolished this entity in a directive of
September 20th 1945
effective ten days later the result was
that the new chief executive and his
aides were suddenly denied the valuable
intelligence produced by this unique and
effective organization and experienced
this loss at a time when summit
conferences among the major world powers
gave increased impetus for its
availability the General Staff Joint
Intelligence Committee and combined
intelligence committee experiences
during the war prompted interest at the
highest defense policy and organization
levels in an improved intelligence
coordination mechanism a centralized
intelligence agency had been proposed
during World War one by Treasury
Secretary William McAdoo OSS director
William Donovan had also proposed such
an entity in 1944 to serve this
intelligence coordination function the
President issued a directive dated
January 22nd 1946 establishing a
National Intelligence Authority with a
support staff called the Central
Intelligence Group addressed to the
secretaries of state war and navy this
instrument said quote one it is my
desire and I hereby direct that all
federal foreign intelligence activities
be planned developed and coordinated so
as to assure the most effective
accomplishment of the intelligence
mission related to the national security
I hereby designate you together with
another person to be named by me as my
personal representative as the National
Intelligence authority to accomplish
this purpose
to within the limits of available
appropriations you shall each from time
to time assign persons and facilities
from your respective departments which
persons shall collectively form a
Central Intelligence Group and shall
under the direction of a director of
Central Intelligence assist the National
Intelligence Authority the director of
Central Intelligence shall be designated
by me shall be responsible to the
National Intelligence authority and
shall sit as a non-voting member thereof
three subject to the existing law and to
the direction and control of the
National Intelligence Authority the
director of Central Intelligence shall a
accomplished the correlation and
evaluation of intelligence relating to
the national security and the
appropriate dissemination within the
government of the resulting strategic
and national policy intelligence and so
doing full use shall be made of the
staff and facilities of the intelligence
agencies of your departments be plan for
the coordination of such of the
activities of the intelligence agencies
of your departments and has relate to
the national security and recommend to
the National Intelligence Authority the
establishment of such overall policies
and objectives as will assure the most
effective accomplishment of the national
intelligence mission see perform for the
benefit of said intelligence agencies
such services of common concern as the
National Intelligence Authority
determines can be more efficiently
accomplished centrally D performs such
other functions and duties related to
intelligence affecting the national
security as the president and the
national intelligence Authority may from
time to time direct for no police law
enforcement or internal security
functions shall be exercised under this
directive five such intelligence
received by the intelligence agencies of
your departments as may be designated by
the National Intelligence Authority
shall be freely available to the
director of central intelligence for
correlation evaluation or dissemination
to the X
approved by the National Intelligence
Authority the operations of said
intelligence agencies shall be open to
inspection by the Director of Central
Intelligence in connection with planning
functions 6 the existing intelligence
agencies of your departments shall
continue to collect evaluate correlate
and disseminate departmental
intelligence 7 the director of central
intelligence shall be advised by an
intelligence advisory board consisting
of the heads or their representatives of
the principal military and civilian
intelligence agencies of the government
having functions related to national
security as determined by the National
Intelligence Authority 8 within the
scope of existing law and presidential
directives other departments and
agencies of the executive branch of the
federal government shall furnish such
intelligence information relating to the
national security as is in their
possession and as the director of
central intelligence may from time to
time request pursuant to regulations of
the National Intelligence Authority 9
nothing herein shall be construed to
authorize the making of investigations
inside the Continental limits of the
United States and its possessions except
as provided by law and presidential
directives 10 in the conduct of their
activities the National Intelligence
Authority and the Director of Central
Intelligence shall be responsible for
fully protecting intelligence sources
and methods end quote
while this arrangement may have
facilitated the coordination of
intelligence matters the Central
Intelligence Group was incapable of ever
approaching the scope of operations
achieved by the OSS not only was the
staff inadequately small in number and
temporary and status but its leadership
was not stable Rear Admiral Sidney W
sours first headed the unit but within
six months he was succeeded by General
Hoyt s Vandenberg in May 1947 Rear
Admiral Roscoe H hillenkoetter of the
group and after the Central Intelligence
Agency displaced the CI G made
transition to lead the CIA from 1947
when the armed services were unified and
reorganized under the Department of
Defense superstructure the National
Security Council the now-defunct
National Security Resources Board and
the Central Intelligence Agency was
established to the present there has
been a steady growth in intelligence
institutions and organization the
remaining portion of this study is
devoted to the evolution and growth of
these entities
[Music]
this is our hidden history